you'll need to gather the following
items for this activity an a4 sheet of
paper and some scissors a straw and a
pencil the pencil should be a little bit
wider than the straw some sellotape and
a measuring tape to start could a 5
centimeter wide strip from the long side
of the piece of paper
start wrapping the paper strip around
the pencil at an angle so that you are
gradually moving up the pencil roll the
paper fairly tightly around the pencil
until you get to the other end use
sellotape to tape the paper in place at
each end and in the middle
now remove the pencil and cut straight
across each end of the paper tube to
make them level to make the top of your
rocket fold one end of the tube over and
sellotape it shut your rocket is now
ready we'll add a nose cone and fins a
little later it's time to start our test
how far do you think your rocket will go
do you think it'll make any difference
when the nose cone and fins are at it
remember to make a fair test you should
try to launch your rocket from the same
place each time at the same angle and
blowing the rocket just as hard each
time too okay
launch your rocket by putting it onto
the straw and blowing and remember never
launch your rocket at somebody else as
it could hurt them use the measuring
tape to measure where the rocket lands
how did the distance compare it your
guess write the distance down in a chart
and then launch the rocket two more
times before calculating an average
distance for the three flights now use
the scissors paper and sellotape to make
fins for your rocket
a touch the fins and launch your rocket
three more times before using the chart
to calculate the average distance
did the rocket go further when the fins
were touched now you need to add a nose
cone to your rocket you can make a cone
by using something round
to cut a circular piece of paper
next cut a slice of paper out of the
circle overlap the edges and tape them
in place to make the cone use some
sellotape to stick the cone onto the end
of your rocket
like before with the fins launch your
rocket three times and measure each
distance to come up with an average how
far did the rocket go this time why do
you think this might be the case
can you think of other things you could
do to your rocket to change how far it
flies look at the activity sheet for
further information